- [[2025-03-27]] [[Talk track]]
	- Chemical Bonds
	  https://openstax.org/books/anatomy-and-physiology-2e/pages/2-2-chemical-bonds
		- Ionic
			- Outright transfer of an electron from one atom to another.
			- The donor becomes positively charged and is called a cation.
			- The acceptor becomes negatively charged and is called an anion.
			- For example, in NaCl (table salt), the sodium atom becomes the positively charged sodium cation, and the chloride atom becomes the negatively charged chloride anion.
			- In ionic solids, cations and anions sit in a regular grid, held together by electrostatic forces
				- [Energetics of Ionic Solids](https://chem.libretexts.org/Courses/East_Tennessee_State_University/CHEM_3110%3A_Descriptive_Inorganic_Chemistry/05%3A_Structure_and_Energetics_of_Solids/5.02%3A_Energetics_of_Ionic_Solids-_Lattice_Energy)
					- Pull - electrostatic, coulomb's law, long-range
					- Push - closed shell repulsion due to pauli exclusion
					- Lattice Energy can be computed given crystal structure
						- Using crystal structure to get do infinite sum of all pairs of Coulomb forces gives Madelung constant $M$
						- Assuming repulsive force is
						  $$\frac{B}{r^n}$$
						  gives
						  $$- \frac{N_AMz^+z^- e^2 }{4 \pi \varepsilon_0 r_0}\left(1-\frac{1}{n}\right)$$
						  for the lattice energy
						- Note the $B$ drops out
				- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Solvation
					- Polar solvents have molecular dipoles, meaning that part of the solvent molecule has more electron density than another part of the molecule. The part with more electron density will experience a partial negative charge while the part with less electron density will experience a partial positive charge. Polar solvent molecules can solvate polar solutes and ions because they can orient the appropriate partially charged portion of the molecule towards the solute through electrostatic attraction. This stabilizes the system and creates a solvation shell (or hydration shell in the case of water) around each particle of solute. The solvent molecules in the immediate vicinity of a solute particle often have a much different ordering than the rest of the solvent, and this area of differently ordered solvent molecules is called the cybotactic region.[5] Water is the most common and well-studied polar solvent, but others exist, such as ethanol, methanol, acetone, acetonitrile, and dimethyl sulfoxide. Polar solvents are often found to have a high dielectric constant, although other solvent scales are also used to classify solvent polarity.
		- Covalent
			- Sharing of electrons between atoms
				- H2 example
					- Recipe
						- Fixing the positions of the nuclei at distance $R$ apart, solve the electronic Shroedinger's equation
						- At infinite $R$, this value should be $2 \times -13.6 eV$ - two
					- https://www.arturorobertazzi.it/2023/03/predicting-the-hydrogen-dissociation-energy-the-100-year-battle-of-quantum-chemistry-vs-experiment/
			- Can still be unequally shared, forming a polarized bond
				- electronegativity - chemical property that describes the tendency of an atom or a functional group to attract electrons toward itself
		- Metallic
	- Carbon
		- Diamond
			- sp3 bonding
			- poor electrical conductor (5.47 eV band gap)
			- very good thermal conductor (3000 W/mK)
				- demonstration, melting ice with a diamond plate:
				  https://youtu.be/UZ-qKvtHDnM?t=38
				- stiff material
					- thermal vibrations travel fast
					- fast diffusion of phonons / long mean free path
			- synthetic diamonds
			- structural color
		- Graphite
			- sp2 bonding
			- electrical conductivity
				- good in-plane (2000 W/mK)
					- No band gap
				- poor through-plane (10 W/mK)
			- thermal conductivity
				- good in-plane
				- poor through-plane
		- Carbon Nanotubes
			- Types
				- Walls - Number of Layers
				- Length
				- $(n, m)$ - how you roll up a graphene sheet to form the nanotube