- [[Talk track]]
	- Review
		- Electrochemistry
			- Why does the reaction at the battery electrodes stop after the ends are disconnected?
				- A potential difference accumulates between the electrolyte and the solid electrode, until it repels the relevant ion and stops further reaction
				- Go over what this means for the electrodes in a Lead-Acid battery in detail
	- Chemical Bonds
	  https://openstax.org/books/anatomy-and-physiology-2e/pages/2-2-chemical-bonds
		- Covalent - sharing of electrons between atoms
			- [Covalent bonds are created by the drive of electron waves to lower their kinetic energy through expansion](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC4032414/) - read introduction
			- H2 example
				- Fixing the positions of the nuclei at distance $R$ apart, solve the electronic Schroedinger's equation to get the electronic energy
				- At infinite $R$, this value should be $2 \times -13.6 eV$ - two hydrogen atoms
				- As R gets smaller, the energy decreases, reaching a minimum at some length, after which the energy starts going up again
			- Additional reading
			  collapsed:: true
				- [Covalent Bonding: The Fundamental Role of the Kinetic Energy](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/abs/10.1021/jp403284g)
					- This work addresses the continuing disagreement between two prevalent schools of thought concerning the mechanism of covalent bonding. According to Hellmann, Ruedenberg, and Kutzelnigg, a lowering of the kinetic energy associated with electron delocalization is the key stabilization mechanism. The opposing view of Slater, Feynman, and Bader has maintained that the source of stabilization is electrostatic potential energy lowering due to electron density redistribution to binding regions between nuclei. Despite the large body of accurate quantum chemical work on a range of molecules, the debate concerning the origin of bonding continues unabated, even for H2+, the simplest of covalently bound molecules. We therefore present here a detailed study of H2+, including its formation, that uses a sequence of computational methods designed to reveal the relevant contributing mechanisms as well as the spatial density distributions of the kinetic and potential energy contributions. We find that the electrostatic mechanism fails to provide real insight or explanation of bonding, while the kinetic energy mechanism is sound and accurate but complex or even paradoxical to those preferring the apparent simplicity of the electrostatic model. We further argue that the underlying mechanism of bonding is in fact of dynamical character, and analyses that focus on energy do not reveal the origin of covalent bonding in full clarity.
				- [The Covalent Bond According to Slater and Ruedenberg](https://chem.libretexts.org/Bookshelves/Physical_and_Theoretical_Chemistry_Textbook_Maps/Quantum_Tutorials_(Rioux)/03%3A_Chemical_Bonding/3.06%3A_The_Covalent_Bond_According_to_Slater_and_Ruedenberg)
					- John Slater pioneered the use of the virial theorem in interpreting the chemical bond in a benchmark paper published in the inaugural volume of the Journal of Chemical Physics (1). This early study indicated that electron kinetic energy played an important role in bond formation. Thirty years later Klaus Ruedenberg and his collaborators published a series of papers (2,3,4) detailing the crucial role that kinetic energy plays in chemical bonding, thereby completing the project that Slater started. This Mathcad worksheet recapitulates Slater's use of the virial theorem in studying chemical bond formation and summarizes Ruedenberg final analysis.
		- Ionic
			- Outright transfer of an electron from one atom to another.
			- The donor becomes positively charged and is called a cation.
			- The acceptor becomes negatively charged and is called an anion.
			- For example, in NaCl (table salt), the sodium atom becomes the positively charged sodium cation, and the chloride atom becomes the negatively charged chloride anion.
			- In ionic solids, cations and anions sit in a regular grid, held together by electrostatic forces
				- [Energetics of Ionic Solids](https://chem.libretexts.org/Courses/East_Tennessee_State_University/CHEM_3110%3A_Descriptive_Inorganic_Chemistry/05%3A_Structure_and_Energetics_of_Solids/5.02%3A_Energetics_of_Ionic_Solids-_Lattice_Energy)
					- Pull - electrostatic, coulomb's law, long-range
					- Push - closed shell repulsion due to pauli exclusion
					- Lattice Energy can be computed given crystal structure
						- Using crystal structure to get do infinite sum of all pairwise Coulomb energies (some positive, some negative) gives Madelung constant $M$
						- Assuming repulsive force is
						  $$\frac{B}{r^n}$$
						  gives
						  $$- \frac{N_AMz^+z^- e^2 }{4 \pi \varepsilon_0 r_0}\left(1-\frac{1}{n}\right)$$
						  for the lattice energy
						- Note the $B$ drops out
				- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Solvation
					- Polar solvents have molecular dipoles, meaning that part of the solvent molecule has more electron density than another part of the molecule.
					- The part with more electron density will experience a partial negative charge while the part with less electron density will experience a partial positive charge.
					- Polar solvent molecules can solvate polar solutes and ions because they can orient the appropriate partially charged portion of the molecule towards the solute through electrostatic attraction. This stabilizes the system and creates a solvation shell (or hydration shell in the case of water) around each particle of solute.
						- The solvent molecules in the immediate vicinity of a solute particle often have a much different ordering than the rest of the solvent, and this area of differently ordered solvent molecules is called the cybotactic region.
					- Water is the most common and well-studied polar solvent, but others exist, such as ethanol, methanol, acetone, acetonitrile, and dimethyl sulfoxide. Polar solvents are often found to have a high dielectric constant, although other solvent scales are also used to classify solvent polarity.
		- [Electronegativity](https://chem.libretexts.org/Bookshelves/Physical_and_Theoretical_Chemistry_Textbook_Maps/Supplemental_Modules_(Physical_and_Theoretical_Chemistry)/Physical_Properties_of_Matter/Atomic_and_Molecular_Properties/Electronegativity) - chemical property that describes the tendency of an atom or a functional group to attract electrons toward itself
			- Electrons in a covalent bond can still be unequally shared, forming a polarized bond
			- As such, there is a continuum between covalent and ionic bonds
			- Different approximations for electronegativity: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Us1f6ZOlOK8
		- Metallic
			- Special type of covalent bond, with lots of nuclei involved - we covered this when we talked about semiconductors
	- Carbon
		- Diamond
			- sp3 bonding
			- poor electrical conductor (5.47 eV band gap)
			- very good thermal conductor (3000 W/mK)
				- demonstration, melting ice with a diamond plate:
				  https://youtu.be/UZ-qKvtHDnM?t=38
				- stiff material
					- thermal vibrations travel fast
					- fast diffusion of phonons / long mean free path
			- synthetic diamonds
				- Chemical Vapor Deposition
				- High Pressure High Temperature
					- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6o5RprIJmfA
		- Graphite
			- sp2 bonding
			- electrical conductivity
				- good in-plane (2000 W/mK)
					- No band gap
				- poor through-plane (10 W/mK)
			- thermal conductivity
				- good in-plane
				- poor through-plane
		- Carbon Nanotubes
			- Higher electrical conductivity than graphite, why?
			- Types
				- Walls - Number of Layers
				- Length
				- $(n, m)$ - how you roll up a graphene sheet to form the nanotube