- Talk track
	- Electrochemistry and Semiconductors are related by their study of charged particles that undergo three type of processes
		- Drift under an electric field
		- Diffusion across a concentration gradient
		- Creation and annihilation upon encountering other particles
	- Electrochemistry
		- Redox reactions are a class of reactions that each compose of an oxidation and a reduction. The properties of a redox reaction can be predicted from those of the two half-reactions that form it.
			- Walk through the process of balancing a redox reaction, in [example 17.1](https://openstax.org/books/chemistry-2e/pages/17-1-review-of-redox-chemistry)
		- Notice how we introduced electrons but had all of them cancel out at the end. Well, you don't need to do that. Consider [this reaction](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lead%E2%80%93acid_battery):
			- $\mathrm{Pb(s)} + \mathrm{PbO_2(s)} + 2\,\mathrm{H_2SO_4(aq)} \rightarrow 2\,\mathrm{PbSO_4(s)} + 2\,\mathrm{H_2O(l)}$
			- It can be split into
				- $\mathrm{Pb(s)} + \mathrm{HSO_4^{-}(aq)} \rightarrow \mathrm{PbSO_4(s)} + \mathrm{H^{+}(aq)} + 2\,\mathrm{e^{-}}$
				- $\mathrm{PbO_2(s)} + \mathrm{HSO_4^{-}(aq)} + 3\,\mathrm{H^{+}(aq)} + 2\,\mathrm{e^{-}} \rightarrow \mathrm{PbSO_4(s)} + 2\,\mathrm{H_2O(l)}$
			- In a lead-acid battery, these two half-reactions happen at the different locations, a cathode and an anode. The two locations are connected by a wire and an electrolyte. The electrolyte is a poor conductor of electricity, and ions cannot travel through the wire - this splitting apart of the reaction forces the electrons to travel through whatever it is you are powering with the battery to complete the reaction.
			- Reaction above has a voltage of 2V. A car battery stacks 6 of them to get 12V.
		- What happens when you disconnect the wire?
			- Voltage gradient starts to build up
			- This pushes and pulls the ions in solution in a way that changes the concentration at the surface, until equilibrium is reached
			-
		- Does the hydrogen electrode have a voltage of 0?
			- https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Absolute_electrode_potential
		- Sacrificial Anodes
			- [rusting](https://openstax.org/books/chemistry-2e/pages/17-6-corrosion) is a redox reaction
			- A more